# Section 1, Unit 2

## Guide Book

Explore grammar tips and key phrases for this unit.

- **KEY PHRASES**

    **Use adjectives**

    - Der Hund ist jung. / The dog is young.
    - Ja, die Eule ist klug und nett. / Yes, the owl is smart and nice.
    - Der Bär ist schön. / The bear is beautiful.
    - Oh, meine Katze ist nett! / Oh, my cat is nice!

- **TIP**

    **A bit more gender**
    
    Remember how you say **mein Vater** but **meine Mutter**? Well, **mein** isn’t the only word that changes form!

    die Frau, der Mann / the woman, the man

    The word **der** also changes depending on the **gender** of the word it’s paired with. If it’s masculine, it’s der. If it’s feminine, it’s die.

- **TIP**

    **Hello, Ms. Cat!**

    It’s not just words for people that have gender — all words do! For example, words like Bär and Hund are masculine, while Eule and Katze are feminine. 

    der Hund und die Katze / the dog and the cat

    So how do you know if a word is feminine or masculine? Unfortunately, it’s not always logical — it’s just something you’ll have to learn! 

    So when you’re learning German words, don’t just memorize Bär or Katze. Instead, memorize the whole phrase, der Bär or die Katze.

- **KEY PHRASES**

    **Greet people**

    - Guten Morgen, Anna! / Good morning, Anna!
    - Guten Morgen, Mutter! / Good morning, Mother!
    - Guten Tag, wie geht's? / Good afternoon, how are you?
    - Sehr gut, danke! / Very good, thank you!
    - Guten Abend! / Good evening!
    - Guten Abend, Anna! / Good evening, Anna!

- **TIP**

    **Shh! Listen up!**

    Lots of German words have a silent **h**. This silent **h** makes the vowel before it just a little bit longer.

    - eh: es g**eh**t, auf Wieders**eh**en ​(as in “d**ay**”)
    - oh: S**oh**n (as in “z**o**ne”) 

## Practices
